[standalone][ejected][android] Provide methods that helps with files migration. (#6244)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/dataMigrationHelper.md

---
title: DataMigrationHelper
---

**`DataMigrationHelper`**  helps you to solve a problem with missing files after SDK upgrade on Android.
The problem only occurs when one upgrades the ejected/standalone application from SDK 32 or below to SDK 33 or above.

## API

```js
import { DataMigrationHelper } from 'expo';
```

### `DataMigrationHelper.getLegacyDocumentDirectoryAndroid(): string | null`

This method returns the path to the legacy document directory which can be used by `expo-file-system`.

> Returns null on all platforms except Android

### `DataMigrationHelper.migrateFilesFromLegacyDirectoryAsync(): Promise<void>`

```js

export default class App extends React.Component {
  state = {
    movedFiles: false,
  };

  render() {
    const { movedFiles } = this.state;

    if (!movedFiles) {
      return (
        <AppLoading
          startAsync={this._moveFiles}
          onFinish={() => this.setState({ movedFiles: true })}
          onError={console.warn}
        />
      );
    }

    return (
      ...
    );
  }

  async _moveFiles() {
    await DataMigrationHelper.migrateFilesFromLegacyDirectoryAsync();
  }
  ...
}

```

> This method moves all files from the legacy directory to the current document directory. If the legacy directory is empty then it is a no-op. If the current document directory already contains a file with the same relative path as a file in the legacy directory then it will be overwritten.

Reviewer: Would it be possible to add an option to preserve the file in the current directory if there is a naming conflict, rather than always overwriting with the file from the legacy directory? It seems like there is an important use case for that -- what if a developer already upgraded their SDK 32 app to SDK 33+ and then just created new data in the new location? For end users who have upgraded, the developer would NOT want to migrate their old data and overwrite the new data, but if there are some end users who have not yet upgraded to the SDK 33+ version, the developer in theory WOULD want to migrate the old data in that case.

This would essentially be adding the node `COPYFILE_EXCL` option here for the operation as a whole (but behind the scenes it would apply to each individual file in the directory). https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html#fs_fs_copyfile_src_dest_flags_callback

---
title: DataMigrationHelper
---

> **`DataMigrationHelper`** helps you to solve a problem with missing files after SDK upgrade on Android.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`DataMigrationHelper`** allows manual control over migrating `FileSystem` files from the legacy directory on Android.
```

> The problem only occurs when the ejected/standalone application is upgraded from SDK 32 or below to SDK 33 or above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In SDK 33, the location of the `FileSystem.documentDirectory` was changed for standalone apps from a scoped to an unscoped directory. The Expo runtime attempts to migrate files to the new location automatically; however, we provide this manual helper class in case you need more fine-grained control.
```

> 

Reviewer: I think we need to provide a clear and straighforward section like this, otherwise this will just be confusing to users.
```suggestion

## How to use

- **If you are upgrading your standalone app from SDK 32 or below** and use the `FileSystem` API, we recommend running `DataMigrationHelper.migrateFilesFromLegacyDirectoryAsync()` as early as possible in your app's lifecycle to properly migrate old files. After this, you should be good to go.
- **If you have already upgraded your standalone app from SDK 32 or below to SDKs 33-35 and are upgrading again**, and use the `FileSystem` API, we recommend calling `DataMigrationHelper.migrateFilesFromLegacyDirectoryAsync(DataMigrationHelper.noopResolve)` as early as possible in your app's lifecycle. This will migrate files from the legacy directory only if files with the same name do not already exist in the new location -- allowing you migrate old users without fear of overwriting newly created data for newer users.
- **If your app never used the `FileSystem` API in SDK 32 or below**, there is no need for you to use this module.

```

## API

```js
import { DataMigrationHelper } from 'expo';
```

### `DataMigrationHelper.getLegacyDocumentDirectoryAndroid(): string | null`

Returns the path to the legacy document directory which can be used by `expo-file-system`.

> Returns null on all platforms except Android

### `DataMigrationHelper.migrateFilesFromLegacyDirectoryAsync(conflictResolver?: ConflictResolver): Promise<void>`

```js

export default class App extends React.Component {
  state = {
    movedFiles: false,
  };

  render() {
    const { movedFiles } = this.state;

    if (!movedFiles) {
      return (
        <AppLoading
          startAsync={this._moveFiles}
          onFinish={() => this.setState({ movedFiles: true })}
          onError={console.warn}
        />
      );
    }

    return (
      ...
    );
  }

  async _moveFiles() {
    await DataMigrationHelper.migrateFilesFromLegacyDirectoryAsync(); 
  }
  ...
}

```

This method moves all files from the legacy directory to the current document directory. 

> `conflictResolver` argument is optional and if it is possible to leave it empty we encourage to do so because the method runs faster without it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `conflictResolver` argument is optional, and if it is possible to leave it empty, we encourage doing so because the method runs faster without it.
```

>  If you don't pass any conflict resolver and current document directory already contains a file with the same relative path as a file in the legacy directory then it will be overwritten.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no `conflictResolver` is provided, and there is a naming conflict between any file in the current and legacy directories, the file in the current directory will be overwritten.
```

>  There is no need to check if the method was already called (We check that).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method is idempotent; there is no need to check whether it has already been called.
```
